Hello everyone.
This is just a quick note before we jump into the actual next lesson.
So it really quick I just want to talk about the classic Ed. versus the default editor.
Let me show you what in the world I'm talking about.
So here's my web site.
And if I jump into the admin dashboard and if I begin creating a brand new post this screen that we
see whenever we are creating a new page or post or editing an existing page or post we refer to the
screen as the editor or the edit screen.
Now in December of 2018 WordPress did something very controversial.
They completely redesigned the edit screen meaning for the last decade up until December of 2018.
This edit screen looked drastically different.
Now some people love this new editor but some people really do not like it.
And when I say some people I don't just mean a few loud angry people.
I mean millions and millions of people do not like this new editor.
Now this is not surprising.
The official word press team knew that a lot of people would not like this Ed. They knew it would be
a controversial decision.
In fact if I switch over to the official Wordpress blog from the official WordPress Web site they posted
this blog about the new update to the new editor and they have a section in the blog called Keep it
classic.
And it says that if you prefer to keep the older or classic editor they will keep supporting it through
a plug in through 2021.
So I'm assuming that means December 30th first of 2021 or January 1st of 2022.
Either way that's several more years of people being able to use the older original or classic Ed. If
they want to.
Now a bit later on in this video lesson I'm going to show you how to enable the older classic Ed..
But before we do that I want to show you the basics of the new or modern editor.
Right.
So this is the screen we've been using throughout the course so far.
You can add a title here and then down here we add our content.
So you can say this is content.
Now here's the interesting thing about the new editor.
If I push enter or return to create a new paragraph and say hello again.
It actually creates separate blocks.
That's the term that WordPress is using for each piece of content.
Now a block now aside from paragraphs there are many different other types of blocks.
So for example if I wanted to switch this from a paragraph to a larger headline I can click into that
block and then while I'm hovering over it if I use this icon I can change the type of block so I could
change it to a heading OK.
And then aside from pushing enter or return to create a new block we can also use this icon towards
the top left of the edit screen.
This plus symbol we can use this to create a new block and then that will actually give us a menu of
all of the different block types.
So this would allow us to insert an image into the content of our post or a bulleted list or a large
quote.
Or if you wanted to embed a YouTube video into your content you can search here for the type of block
you're interested in.
So I can just say YouTube and then it'll show me the result I could click this and then it's as simple
as just pasting in the RL of the YouTube video you want to include and then you would click embed and
then it would show up in your content.
So that's the new or modern editor.
In a nutshell everything is a block and there are different types of blocks.
BLOCK can be a paragraph.
It can be a headline.
It can be a photograph.
It can be a YouTube video and then you're free to drag and rearrange the blocks.
You get the idea.
Now this new editor has only officially been a part of Wordpress since December of 2018.
And I've gone ahead and rerecorded or refilled the first five or six lessons of the course to show the
new editor.
Now eventually it will make sense to rerecord the entire course using the modern editor but I don't
think that time is now because there are still millions of people that prefer the older or classic editor
and the official WordPress team themselves in their official blog post have noted that you can continue
using the classic editor through the entire year of 2021.
So as of right now I can let you know that the remainder of this course is going to use the older or
classic editor.
Now I don't want to come across as a traditionalist who is afraid of change or the future this new modern
editor that we see here is definitely the way forward.
However I do think that it's going to go through a bit of growing pains for the next six months to a
year.
It was just released by the Board press team and I think there's some big bugs and kinks that they need
to work out of the system so.
Eventually down the road this would be the editing experience that I wholeheartedly recommend.
But I don't think we're there yet but that's just my opinion.
If you want to use this new modern editor that's A-OK.
I just want this issue to be on your radar.
I want you to be aware of the fact that some people like the new editor a lot of people don't.
And it's up to you to choose which editing experience you want to use.
So at this point we've seen the new modern editor.
Now I want to show you how to try out the older classic editor.
So right now I want you to follow along with me within the left hand menu of the admin screen.
Look for plugins it should be about the fifth or sixth link down in the menu.
So plugins go ahead and click on that now don't worry in a future lesson.
I will explain what a plug in is right now though I can let you know that you don't need to know what
a plug in is in order to use the classic editing experience.
So this screen shows us all of the plug ins that we currently have.
We want to add a new one so we can either click add new up here at the top or we can click add new in
the sidebar.
That's nested under plug ins.
So add new plug in from this add plug in screen.
I'm going to use this search bar towards the top right and I want you to search for a plug in that is
named classic editor.
For me it is the first result.
Classic Ed..
You can see that it's created by the official WordPress team WordPress contributors.
This means it is 100 percent legit safe and secure.
This is not a plug in created by a random community member held up by duct tape and hacks.
This is the official board press editor that has been a part of Wordpress for years and years.
And you can see that at the time I'm recording this.
It has the perfect five star rating and it is used on over a million different Web sites already.
So go ahead and click the install now button for the classic editor.
Give it a minute or two and as soon as it installs this button will now say activate instead of install
now.
So go ahead and click the Activate button.
Ok and now let's go try to create a brand new blog post.
So in the sidebar posts add new and you can see that this editing screen looks a bit different.
This is the classic editor up until December of 2018.
This is the general way that the word press editing screen looked for the past decade plus this is where
you add your title.
Hello world.
And this is where you add your content and you can see that this resembles a word processing document
so you can type.
Here is a bit of content.
And there's just one big large field.
Everything does not get broken up into its own separate block if you want to make something bold.
You just highlight it you can click the bold or italic icon if you want to change something to a headline
you could just select this and then choose this instead of paragraph making a heading level 2.
Now I'm not going to show every feature of the classic editor right now because that's what we're going
to learn throughout the remainder of this course in future lessons we will learn how to add a photograph
into our content how do embed YouTube video and much more.
So I strongly encourage you to use this classic ed. with me throughout the remainder of the course.
But I don't want you to feel completely locked into the classic editor.
I think it would be a good idea to use it throughout this course so that we are on the same page.
And then once you are familiar with wordpress as a whole you'll be in a much better position to make
an educated decision and then you can decide which editing experience you prefer.
With that in mind really quick I want to show you how you would disable the classic editor and go back
to the modern editor.
So in the left hand side bar look for plug ins again click on plug ins.
This screen shows you all the plug ins you currently have.
Look for classic Ed..
And then just click the Deactivate button right below its title once it's deactivated your Wordpress
will use the new modern editor once again.
So you can just activate and deactivate and switch back and forth.
However often you want.
The decision is up to you but just know that I am going to use the classic editor in the upcoming video
lessons.
I feel that it's easier to use and it's just more intuitive for the majority of people.
And apparently it seems like millions of others agree with that sentiment.
Hopefully down the road maybe six months to a year from now the modern editor gets a few improvements
or changes made to it and it becomes the unanimous optimum editing experience.
I do know that the classic editor will be officially supported by WordPress at least until the very
end of 2021.
It's going to be interesting to see how this whole issue plays out.
I think you're fine either way whichever editing experience you choose let's keep rolling through these
lessons.
We are going to be using the Classic get in there and I will see you in the next lesson.